Morris Sim User Documentation
*****************************

Copyright (C) 2012 Andrew Makousky
See the end of this file for license conditions.

About 9 Mens Morris
*******************

The 9 Mens Morris game variations have different board layouts and
different numbers of pieces required for the layout.  9 Mens Morris is
a solved game, which means that for any given board position, it is
possible to determine the winner assuming that they play optimally.
Since 9 Mens Morris is a solved game, I thought it would be a good
idea to write a simulator for 11 Mens Morris.

The game engine has support for a lot of variations of 9 Mens Morris.
The generalized name used in this program for all variations of 9 Mens
Morris combined is N Mens Morris.  Currently, only 11 Mens Morris is
supported, and none of these variations are taken advantage of.  One
possible variation that is not taken advantage of is having more than
two players play the game at the same time.

General Gameplay of 11 Mens Morris
**********************************

The object of this game is to remove the opponent's pieces until they
are down to only two pieces.  When your opponent is down to only two
pieces, then you win.

The game of 11 Mens Morris is divided into two phases: a setup phase
and the normal game phase.  During the setup phase, each player takes
turns putting down a piece on the board.  One important layout of
pieces in the game of 11 Mens Morris is the mill, which is a row,
column, or diagonal of 3 adjacent pieces of the same player.  There
must be a line on the board connecting the pieces for them to be
considered adjacent.  When one or more mills are formed during the
setup phase, the player who formed the mill gets the opportunity to
remove one of the opponent's pieces.  Only at the moment a mill is
formed does the player get to remove the opponent's piece: having
mills does not provide a continuing opportunity to remove the
opponent's piece at each turn.  The player must remove an opponent's
piece that is outside of a mill unless there is no such option.
Players only place up to 11 pieces on the board.  The more of their
pieces get removed during the setup phase, the less pieces they have
for the main gameplay state.

During the main gameplay state, players can move pieces to adjacent
spaces on the gameboard.  Whenever a player forms one or more mills,
they get the opportunity to remove one of the opponent's pieces.
Again, the player can only remove pieces when they create a mill, not
just when they continue to have one.  The pieces they remove must also
be either outside of a mill or any piece if there are no other
options.

It's possible for a player to have no move opportunities during their
turn.  As of now, the interactive game will just get deadlocked
flagging all player moves as invalid.

License Conditions
******************

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
